[Misconceptions of Chance ](http://k2invest.blogspot.in/2016/01/mental-model-misconceptions-of-chance.html)

Monday, 8 February 2016

04:13

We expectthe immediate outcome of events to represent the broader outcomes expectedfrom a large number of trials. We believe that chance events will immediatelyself-correct and that small sample sizes are representative of thepopulations from which they are drawn. All of these beliefs lead us astray.

***

Ourunderstanding of the world around us is imperfect and when dealing withchance our brains tend to come up with ways to cope with theunpredictable nature of our world.

“Wetend,” writes Peter Bevelin in [Seeking Wisdom](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1578644283/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1578644283&linkCode=as2&tag=farnamstreet-20&linkId=4QFQMK3OVMVWOAY6), “to believe that theprobability of an independent event is lowered when it has happened recently orthat the probability is increased when it hasn’t happened recently.”

In short,we believe an outcome is due and that chance will self-correct.

Theproblem with this view is that nature doesn’t have a sense of fairness ormemory. We only fool ourselves when we mistakenly believe that independentevents offer influence or meaningful predictive power over future events.

Furthermorewe also mistakenly believe that we can control chance events. This appliesto risky or [uncertain events](https://www.farnamstreetblog.com/2013/11/decisions-under-uncertainty/).

Chanceevents coupled with positive reinforcement or negative reinforcement canbe a dangerous thing. Sometimes we become optimistic and thinkour luck will change and sometimes we become overly pessimistic or risk-averse.

Howdo you know if you’re dealing with chance? A good heuristic is to askyourself if you can lose on purpose. If you can’t you’re likely far into thechance side of the [skill vs. luck continuum](https://www.farnamstreetblog.com/2013/01/untangling-skill-and-luck-in-business-sports-and-investing/). No matter howhard you practice, the probability of chance events won’t change.

“Wetend,” writes Nassim Taleb in [The Black Swan](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/081297381X/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=081297381X&linkCode=as2&tag=farnamstreet-20&linkId=IFCDMIS4VYB5LA74), “to underestimate therole of luck in life in general (and) overestimate it in games of chance.”

We areonly discussing independent events. If events are dependent, wherethe outcome depends on the outcome of some other event, all bets are off.

 

***

Misconceptions of Chance

DanielKahneman coined the term misconceptions of chance to describe the phenomenon ofpeople extrapolating large-scale patterns to samples of a much smaller size.Our trouble navigating the sometimes counterintuitive laws of probability,randomness and statistics leads to misconceptions of chance.

Kahnemanfound that “people expect that a sequence of events generated by a randomprocess will represent the essential characteristics of that process even whenthe sequence is short.”

Inthe paper [Beliefin the Law of Small Numbers](http://pirate.shu.edu/%7Ehovancjo/exp_read/tversky.htm), Kahneman and Tverskyreflect on the results of an experiment, where subjects were instructed togenerate a random sequence of hypothetical tosses of a fair coin.

They [the subjects] produce sequences where the proportion of headsin any short segment stays far closer to .50 than the laws of chance wouldpredict. Thus, each segment of the response sequence is highly representativeof the “fairness” of the coin.

Unsurprisingly,the same nature of errors occurred when the subjects, instead of being asked togenerate sequences themselves, were simply asked to distinguish between randomand human generated sequences. It turns out that when considering tosses of a coinfor heads or tails people regard the sequence H-T-H-T-T-H to be more likelythan the sequence H-H-H-T-H-T, which does not appear random, and also morelikely than the sequence H-H-H-H-T-H. In reality each one of those sequenceshave the exact same probability of occurring. This is a misconception ofchance.

Theaspect that most of us find so hard to grasp about this case is that anypattern of the same length is just as likely to occur in a random sequence. Forexample, the odds of getting 5 tails in a row are 0.03125 or simply stated 0.5(the odds of a specific outcome at each trial) to the power of 5 (number oftrials). 

The sameprobability rule applies for getting the specific sequences of HHTHT or THTHT –where each sequence is obtained by once again taking 0.5 (the odds of aspecific outcome at each trial) to the power of 5 (number of trials), whichequals 0.03125. 

Thisprobability is true for sequences – but it implies no relation between the odds of a specific outcomeat each trial and the representation of the true proportion within these shortsequences.

Yet it’sstill surprising. This is because people expect that the single event odds willbe reflected not only in the proportion of events as a whole, but also in thespecific short sequences we encounter. But this is not the case. A perfectlyalternating sequence is just as extraordinary as a sequence with all tails orall heads.

Incomparison, “a locally representative sequence,” Kahneman writes, in [Thinking, Fast and Slow](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0374533555/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0374533555&linkCode=as2&tag=farnamstreet-20&linkId=3E5IDN3V2RIOTKWR), “deviatessystematically from chance expectation: it contains too many alternations andtoo few runs. Another consequence of the belief in local representativeness isthe well-known gambler’s fallacy.”

 

Gambler’s Fallacy

There isa specific variation of the misconceptions of chance that Kahneman calls theGambler’s fallacy (elsewhere also called the Monte Carlo fallacy).

Thegambler’s fallacy implies that when we come across a local imbalance, we expectthat the future events will smoothen it out. We will act as if every segment ofthe random sequence must reflect the true proportion and, if the sequence hasdeviated from the population proportion, we expect the imbalance to soon becorrected.

Kahnemanexplains that this is unreasonable – coins, unlike people, have no sense of equality and proportion:

The heart of the gambler’s fallacy is a misconception of thefairness of the laws of chance. The gambler feels that the fairness of the coinentitles him to expect that any deviation in one direction will soon becancelled by a corresponding deviation in the other. Even the fairest of coins,however, given the limitations of its memory and moral sense, cannot be as fairas the gambler expects it to be.

Heillustrates this with an example of the roulette wheel and our expectations,when a reasonably long sequence of repetition occurs.

After observing a long run of red on the roulette wheel, most peopleerroneously believe that black is now due, presumably because the occurrence ofblack will result in a more representative sequence than the occurrence of anadditional red.

Inreality, of course, roulette is a random, non-evolving process, in which thechance of getting a red or a black will never depend on the past sequence. Theprobabilities restore after each run, yet we still seem to take the past movesinto account.

Contraryto our expectations, the universe does not keep accounting of a random processso streaks are not necessarily tilted towards the true proportion. Your chanceof getting a red after a series of blacks will always be equal to that ofgetting another red as long as the wheel is fair.

Thegambler’s fallacy need not to be committed inside the casino only. Many ofus commit it frequently by thinking that [a small, random sample](https://www.farnamstreetblog.com/2013/05/mental-model-bias-from-insensitivity-to-sample-size/) will tend tocorrect itself.

Forexample, assume that the average IQ at a specific country is known to be 100.And for the purposes of assessing intelligence at a specific district, we drawa random sample of 50 persons. The first person in our sample happens to havean IQ of 150. What would you expect the mean IQ to be for the whole sample?

Thecorrect answer is (100*49 + 150*1)/50 = 101. Yet without knowing the correctanswer it is tempting to say it is still 100 – the same as in the country as awhole.

Accordingto Kahneman and Tversky such expectation could only be justified by the beliefthat a random process is self-correcting and that the sample variation isalways proportional. They explain:

Idioms such as “errors cancel each other out” reflect the image ofan active self-correcting process. Some familiar processes in nature obey suchlaws: a deviation from a stable equilibrium produces a force that restores theequilibrium.

Indeed,this may be true in thermodynamics, chemistry and arguably also economics.These, however, are false analogies. It is important to realize that the lawsgoverned by chance are not guided by [principles of equilibrium](https://www.farnamstreetblog.com/2013/01/mental-model-equilibrium/) and the numberof random outcomes in a sequence do not have a common balance.

“Chance,”Kahneman writes in [Thinking, Fast and Slow](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0374533555/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=0374533555&linkCode=as2&tag=farnamstreet-20&linkId=3E5IDN3V2RIOTKWR), “is commonlyviewed as a self-correcting process in which a deviation in one directioninduces a deviation in the opposite direction to restore the equilibrium. Infact, deviations are not “corrected” as a chance process unfolds, they aremerely diluted.”

Merge the data here - [http://k2invest.blogspot.in/2015/11/latticework-of-mental-models-gamblers.html](http://k2invest.blogspot.in/2015/11/latticework-of-mental-models-gamblers.html). 

 

The Law of Small Numbers

Misconceptionsof chance are not limited to gambling. In fact most of us fall for them all thetime because we intuitively believe (and there is a whole best-seller sectionat the book store to prove) that inferences drawn from small sample sizes arehighly representative of the populations from which they are drawn.

Byillustrating people’s expectations of random heads and tails sequences, wealready established that we have preconceived notions of what randomness lookslike. This, coupled with the unfortunate tendency to believe in self-correctingprocess in a random sample, generates expectations about sample characteristicsand representativeness, which are not necessarily true. The expectation thatthe patterns and characteristics within a small sample will be representativeof the population as a whole is called the law of small numbers.

Considerthe sequence:

1, 2, 3,_, _, _

What doyou think are the next three digits?

The taskalmost seems laughable, because the pattern is so familiar and obvious – 4,5,6.However, there is an endless variation of different algorithms that would stillfit the first three numbers, such as the Fibonacci sequence (5, 8, 13), arepeated sequence (1,2,3), a random sequence (5,8,2) and many others. Truth is,in this case there simply is not enough information to say what the rulesgoverning this specific sequence are with any reliability.

Thesame rule applies to sampling problems – sometimes we feel we have gathered enough data to tell a realpattern from an illusion. Let me illustrate this fallacy with yet anotherexample.

Imaginethat you face a tough decision between investing in the development of twodifferent product opportunities. Let’s call them Product A or Product B. Youare interested in which product would appeal to the majority of the market, soyou decide to conduct customer interviews. Out of the first five pilotinterviews four customers show a preference for Product A. While the samplesize is quite small, given the time pressure involved, many of us would alreadyhave some confidence in concluding that the majority of customers would preferProduct A.

However,a quick statistical test will tell you that the probability of a result just asextreme is in fact 3/8, assuming that there is no preference among customers atall. This in simple terms means that if customers had no preference betweenProducts A and B, you would still expect 3 customer samples out of 8 to havefour customers vouching for Product A.

Basicallya study of such size has little to no predictive validity – these results could easily be obtainedfrom a population with no preference for one or the other product. This ofcourse does not mean that talking to customers is of no value. Quite thecontrary – the more random cases we examine, the more reliable and accurate theresults of the true proportion will be. If we want absolute certainty we mustbe prepared for a lot of work.

Therewill always be cases where a guesstimate based on a small sample will beenough, because we have other critical information guiding the decision makingprocess or we simply do not need a high degree of confidence. Yet rather thanassuming that the samples we come across are always perfectly representative,we must treat random selection with the suspicion it deserves. Accepting therole imperfect information and randomness play in our lives and being activelyaware of what we don’t know already makes us better decision makers.

Mergehere with - [http://k2invest.blogspot.in/2015/12/latticework-of-mental-models-law-of_17.html](http://k2invest.blogspot.in/2015/12/latticework-of-mental-models-law-of_17.html). 