Psilocybin is a naturally occurring tryptamine alkaloid. It's the principal  psychoactive component of so-called magic mushrooms, psilocybe genus of  mushrooms. About 100 species of those mushrooms had been identified, and  they've been used for, literally for thousands of years within some cultures,  for structured manners and for divinatory and religious purposes. So, recently,  research has been reinitiated with psilocybin as a classic hallucinogen and  exploring some of its potential for therapeutic application. And this work  points back to research done in the 1950s and 60s for two different kinds of  indications. One was in cancer patients, primarily terminally ill and the other  was in addictions area, primarily alcoholism. And we currently have studies in  both those areas going on at Johns Hopkins. So, in the cancer patients, we're  investigating the effects of a single psilocybin session on the existential  anxiety or depressed mood that some patients experience as a consequence of  their cancer diagnosis. So, as you may appreciate any terminal diagnosis can be  very psychologically disruptive. And a fairly good percentage of people  confronted with such a diagnosis, really end up, in despair and and reduced  quality of life. We bring those individual in. They're very carefully screened  prior to participation. And if they qualify for the, for the study, then we'd  give them an opportunity to have a guided and supported psilocybin session in  our laboratory. The context is that people lay down on a couch, they had  headphones and eye shades. They're asked to turn their attention in on their  inner experience. They're in the presence of two guides or monitors with whom  they've already developed a secure and supportive relationship. And those  people are there for the eight-hour session just to provide a context of safety  and support. Under these conditions, with very high probability as we've seen  in both cancer patients and other studies that we've run in healthy volunteers,  the majority of people have what we call a transcendent or mystical type  experience. These are experiences that have actually been well-characterized in  the general research literature on religion, they occur naturally. And they're  transformative and that they can alter very dramatically someone's entire sense  of self and attitudes towards life and meaning. The characteristics of these  experiences include a sense of unity or a sense of the interconnectedness of  all people and things. A sense of sacredness, reverence noetic sense that there  is something more true and more real about this experience than every day  waking consciousness. A positive mood often accompanies these experiences,  often experienced a deep gratitude or sometimes universal love. A transcendence  of time and space occurs, the time collapses into the present moment. There's  no past, there's no future, it's being this now. Finally, these experiences are  said to be ineffable. People, the first thing they say about this kind of  experience is, you know, I can't even put it into words. But with these kinds  of experiences come, can come great psychological healing. There's been one  recent published pilot study out of UCLA. We have this trial going at Johns  Hopkins currently. NYU also has a cancer trial going, and we're really quite  hopeful that very systematic application of psilocybin in this context could  transform end of life care, not only for cancer patients but ultimately for us  all.  &gt;&gt; For the cancer patients, did they report it helping their relationship with  their family or do their families report that the person was ready to pass on,  or was there any family input on that?  &gt;&gt; Yeah, so with the cancer patients, one of the really interesting outcomes is  their relationship to family and their caregivers. People come through these  kinds of experiences with a altered core sense of self and their beingness in  the world. It gives them deep inner strength. And what's really remarkable and  touching is when then that deep inner strength is communicated to their  caretakers. So people can come through this kind of experience and, and be able  to say, clear-eyed, and emotionally open, you know? I'm dying and, and it's sad  and I, I am upset to be leaving and, and leaving you, but it's also okay, and  there, and there's something beautiful about this and there's something  absolutely okay, and I want you to know that.  &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; And [LAUGH]  and when that's, it actually gets to me just describing it. But, but when  someone can say that to their loved ones, it has remarkable healing direction  both ways.  &gt;&gt; I can imagine.  