However, there could be some potential negative effects with people using  psilocybin. Could you touch on perhaps some unusual experiences?  &gt;&gt; Yeah, so it's very important to understand that there are risks, very real  risks, associated with exposure to psilocybin. So in our studies at Johns  Hopkins in, in a therapeutic context and when we are doing studies in healthy  volunteers. We very carefully screen our volunteers. We develop rapport with  them. The drug is given under very tightly-supervised and supportive context,  and we do after-care with them. why do we this? So, the reason that we do this  is because unfortunately psilocybin can produce some, some very difficult long  lasting, and potentially harmful effects. So, number one is that, under the  influence of psilocybin, people can have panic or fear reactions, and they can  end up engaging in dangerous behavior, and it's uncommon. But it's not unheard  of to read reports where people run out into traffic, jump out of windows, you  know, flee in ways that get themselves or other people into trouble. Two is  that there's, there really is concern, and this is more serious than just the  panic, there really is concern that in some individual. Exposure to psilocybin  and other compounds of this  [INAUDIBLE]  hallucinating class can precipitate in during psychiatric illness. the, the  worst possible case would be precipitation of psychosis or schizophrenia of  someone who was already vulnerable to that disorder. And that, it, that's a, a  lifelong, irreversible disorder that is is disastrous for someone. Other than  that there are some people who report persisting PTSD-like syndrome depression  and anxiety disorders. So, we're very concerned about that and, and it's one of  the reasons we screen people very carefully and support them through these  kinds of experiences. We just recently have conducted, and are continuing to  collect data on an online survey asking people about the most difficult  experiences they've had with psilocybin. And what we're finding is that most  people are reporting experiences when it's isolated to their most difficult  experience, they're reporting experiences that are among the most difficult  that they've ever had in their lives. And very often, the single most  challenging experience, so there's nothing easy about these experiences. But  the the more sobering statistics out of this survey is that anywhere from about  of persisting psychological harmful consequence. So some of these people never  had been in therapy before and have sought out psychological counseling for  fearful reaction, or anxiety disorders, or paranoid after the session with  Silly Simon. And they attribute their seeking that out to the Silly Simon  session. about 6% of people report a decreased sense of well-being and, and so  while these compounds may have great therapeutic potentials, there are also  significant risks.  &gt;&gt; Right, right.  