Your organization has done a few trials looking at treating post traumatic  stress disorder with MDMA. And a few questions, one, why MDMA out of all the  drugs, to use, if you could address that first.  &gt;&gt; Yeah. Actually the, the last surviving person with legal permission to give LSD  was a Doctor Bostians in Holland. And he worked with LSD with concentration  camp survivors. And a lot of the concentration camp survivors, not were only  Jews, but Dutch resistance fighters, and they later became part of the Dutch  Government. And they protected him, and there was a book that was written by an  Isreali holocaust survivor who went to the Netherlands to receive LSD as part  of his treatment. And the book is terrific. It's called Shivitti, A Vision. But  it's very difficult to read. Not only because he's sharing some of the things  that happened to him during the concentration camp, but because LSD itself is  very challenging. And MDMA on the other hand is gentle in a profound way. So,  when they tried to figure out what would be the drug that would be most likely  to make it through the system first and become approved as, as a medicine with  psychedelic drug would make it first. And then also, what clinical conditions  should we pick? And so, I spent a lot of time strategically trying to evaluate  that. the reason why MDMA, I think, is the top choice is because it's not that  fundamentally different from our normal way of processing. That people when  they take MDMA, they don't have the same kind of challenge to their logical  train of thought. So, we felt that MDMA would be something that psychiatrists  and psychotherapists would be more willing to experiment with on their own. So  that they could be more effective therapists. And then, MDMA, because of the  way that it reduces fear reactions, it's got an ideal treatment for post  traumatic stress disorder. It works really well. And also there's not a lot of  effective treatments for PTSD out there. Zoloft and Paxil are the only  medications that are available. And they are marginally effective. Most people  say they're not very effective at all. And then, there's a lot of  psychotherapies that have been developed, like prolonged exposure. And they  work in a significant group of people. But there's a lot of people for whom the  available treatments don't work. So, all of that came together. And the other  thing about MDMA, we, we call it our aikido strategy of research, which is that  there are hundreds of millions of dollars, about $300 million. We estimate have  been spent on scientific studies about what's bad with MDMA. And they're all in  the public domain, and they've been funded by governments in the world since  the middle 80s to try to justify prohibition. And, because of that, we're a  small non-profit. If we had to think about making a drug into a medicine and we  had to spend 300 million on safety studies, we, we'd never get it. So, we're  taking all of this energy to demonize MDMA and turning it around, and saying we  have an incredible information about the safety profile. So, in a way, we  want to focus on demonized drugs that have been used by tens of millions of  people illegally. Because the FDA, when they approve a drug, it's been approved  on the basis of several thousand people, at the most. But the 100,000 risk that  happens, somebody dies from this or that. Or like allergies to penicillin, or  aspirin. People die from those things. But you don't find it in the context of  working with a few thousand people. So, with MDMA, where it's been used by  millions and millions of people, we know the risk profile. So, it was a  combination of the gentleness and the profound nature of MDMA and it's effect  on fear. And there's a disease, PTSD, that's accepted by FDA, and there's an  excellent measure, the CAPS, the clinician administered PTSD scale. And what's  really good is that the progress that people make therapeutically is mapped  very carefully by the CAPS, in contrast to work with end of life. So that we  have people so the whole work was psychedelics with LSD and Psilocybin and  MDMA, for end of life, it's more difficult to make that into a medicine.  Because when people become ready to die, that's not so clearly captured on the  state trade anxiety inventory or measures that have been used by the FDA to  approve drugs for anxiety. So, it's, it's a combination of all these factors  that lead us to think about MDMA as our drug and PTSD as our condition. So,  that's our basic model and people, because of what we're trying to do, meaning  making this drug into a prescription medicine and because there's such concerns  about the risks of MDMA, we've decided to work with the hardest cases. So, we  work with people that are chronic PTSD, which means they've had it for at least  six months. And once somebody has had PTSD for six months, they're not likely  to get better on their own. And we work only with people that have failed on  other treatments, so we were with chronic treatment resistant, people with  PTSD. Our first study mostly women, survivors of childhood sexual abuse, had  PTSD an average of over 19 years. &gt;&gt; Wow.  &gt;&gt; And had failed on multiple courses of drugs and therapy. And over 80% of them  no longer had PTSD at the end of the, two months after their last MDMA session.  So, the setting, we call it our psychedelic bed and breakfast. It's [LAUGH]. &gt;&gt; [LAUGH].  &gt;&gt; It's a really beautiful, it's actually, it's an office that used to be a home.  So, it's, and it's an area of Charleston, South Carolina that's been renovated,  so it's all commercial. But it has a kitchen in it. It has a place for a night  attendant to spend the night. we let people bring in some of their family  members, if they want to at night. we tend to let people at the end of the day  bring their family members in also, if they wanted a the therapy session. And  it's a male-female co-therapist team. So, the essence of their model is this  two person team because they're there for eight hours. And the other, you know,  they can take breaks a little bit to go eat or go to the bathroom. But we want  one person there always with the subject. And then, the idea of the male female  team is that if we can sort of model successful communication lot of people  have not had you know, supportive parents or their relationships haven't been  so good. And also, for safety. Some women have been raped or something, to have  just one person there. You know, a man therapist is kind of risky also. So, for  all these different reasons, we have a male female team. We're experimenting  now, where one of the team would need to be a licensed psychiatrist or  therapist. And the other could be a student learning to be a social worker or  learning to be a psychologist or psychotherapist. And so, that accomplishes two  things. It reduces our costs, so that, because we're able to fund this only  through donations. But it also provides a way to train the next generation of  therapists.  &gt;&gt; Can you talk a little bit about the properties and how you can use that  therapeutically and why kids say it's a psychedelic, what they're trying to  experience?  &gt;&gt; Yeah. I think there's a, maybe it will help to describe the difference between  LSD and MDMA. And so, there's a way in which LSD dissolves the ego, dissolves  the, the control structures of our brain. And then, people are sort of flooded  with more material that they've been trying to suppress. And then, also they  can have the sense of connection, where a lot of information that they've  suppressed. Once the things come to the surface, they can feel more connected  and the sense of unity is what then is the epitome, sort of the mystical  experience. So, the classic psychedelics lead more towards this kind of  psychedelic mystical experience. MDMA, on the other hand, strengthens the ego,  it strengthens self acceptance. And it doesn't challenge the ego. But you  become so comfortable in yourself that you can become less self-centered in a  way and see the wider world. there was a linguist at Harvard that was looking  for reading the transcripts of our sessions. And she did an analysis. And she  figured out how to tell who got the placebo and who got the MDMA, in a way that  none of us noticed. And what she figured out is at one point or another the  people who got the MDMA asked the therapists how they were feeling.  &gt;&gt; Oh. [LAUGH].  &gt;&gt; So that you, you're more attenuated to the other, which is why its so good for  couples therapy or couples for relationships. The other thing is that MDMA  stimulates oxytocin and prolactin. So, the hormones of nursing of bonding of  love, of relationships are stimulated by MDMA, so people feel more related and  more connected. Which is why we're starting a new project for MDMA for autistic  adults.  &gt;&gt; Wow.  &gt;&gt; And it's not, I mean logically, it makes sense. &gt;&gt; Mm-hm.  &gt;&gt; But what really started us is that they're in the age of the Internet, there's  all of these people who are doing all these different drugs and posting  reports. And there's a large number of reports on the internet of people who  are Asperger's or autism who took MDMA on their own and could understand  emotions and could communicate better.  &gt;&gt; Fascinating.  &gt;&gt; And there's a woman Alicia Danforth, who's speaking at the conference, who did  her PHD dissertation on contacting all those people as many where she could  identify and ask them how MDMA was useful to them. And on the basis of that,  we've designed a protocol and we've submitted to the FDA we should be hearing  any day now or next week whether the FDA will accept this protocol or whether  they want us to make some changes. But we feel pretty good that the FDA will  say yes.  &gt;&gt; But I think the application of MDMA to Autism to people that don't know how to  read emotions in others and don't really understand their own emotions. Its a  tremendous opportunity, and I think a lot of it has to do with this hormonal  release aspect of MDMA.  &gt;&gt; Right, excellent. Well, fascinating stuff. Thank you so much for your time we  really appreciate it.  