Welcome to the first coding quiz in this lesson. Let's go ahead and put what we have learned into C++. In this quiz you will write a small function that generates Sigma Points. I've prepared the template for you and I would like to quickly make you familiar with it. You will be working on a function called generate Sigma Points. Which receives a pointer to a matrix as input. This is where you are expected to write your result. I will show you how this works in the end of the function. This time, we will consider the complete state of the CTR remodel. So we set the state dimension n_x to 5. Here we set the design parameter lambda to 3- n_x as suggested before. Then we set the example set x and the example covariance matrix P to some realistic values. Now we create a matrix called Xsig. This is a matrix with five rows and This is where I want you to store the sigma points later. Now here, I give you a little help for calculating the square root matrix of the covariance matrix P. What you see here are two function calls which are part of the Eigen library. It performs a Cholesky decomposition and provides the result we need. Feel free to Google this approach, if you want to know more about it. This is where you're supposed to put your code. I would like you to calculate all 11 sigma points and fill the columns of Xsig with the sigma points. One thing is important, when you fill this matrix, use the same ordering of sigma points as I showed you in the video, to make sure the evaluation works. In the end, the result will be printed, so you can check if it's realistic. We received the pointer Xsig_out as input. It points to a matrix. This is how we put our result into this matrix. Please don't change anything outside the student area to make sure your result can be evaluated correctly. Some of the challenges of these programming assignments are related to handling rows and columns of matrices with the Eigen library. Check link to the Eigen cheat sheet in the assignment description, that will help you a lot. 