# So what?

An agreement is made up of two parts including an ‘offer’ made by one party, and ‘acceptance’ by the other. An offer is an expression of willingness by one party to enter into a contract on the verbal or written terms as stated. It’s a promise to do, or not to do something in return.

Acceptance is an unmistakable statement with words, conduct or in writing, by the other party to respond and accept the offer made. Through this form of legal consensus, ‘agreement’ has occurred, even when buying something online. Share your views on accepting terms and conditions when shopping online by taking part in this poll.

## How to take part in the poll

Select **Launch** from the **So what?** section of the step to access the poll. Respond to the poll question and then select **Back to course** to return to this step.

In the **Comments** section of this step, share with other learners the reason for your answer.

If you answered **‘Yes’** to the poll question, describe your experiences of buying online. What was it about the terms and conditions presented to you that gave you confidence in the seller?

If you answered **‘No’**, provide an example of the types of terms and conditions that would make you feel safe when buying from an internet-based store.

## Curious about the results of the poll?

Review the [results of the poll](https://muolt.typeform.com/report/Lr6gNv/FT5X), return to this step and then within the **Comments**, consider sharing with other learners your thoughts on the outcome.

Once you have, take some time to read and respond to comments made by other learners. Remember, you can also ‘like’ comments or follow other learners throughout the course.

------

------