This course will give you a starting point of understanding about the law. It will help you understand not just where the law comes from, but also allow you to reflect and share your experiences.

The law touches on so many aspects of our daily lives, it’s virtually impossible to know every single law as it applies to you at any one time. But, by learning about some of the core areas of law that this course will cover, we want to help you feel more informed about your legal rights and responsibilities as we all go about our lives.

I trained as lawyer in the UK and then as a Trade Marks Attorney in Australia and now lecture in law and am driven by the desire to bring legal literacy to all.

I hope that you find this course an inviting, friendly and challenging environment and we look forward to learning with you.

## New to FutureLearn?

If you’re new to FutureLearn, you may want to familiarise yourself with [how FutureLearn courses work](https://www.futurelearn.com/about/how-it-works/) before getting started.

You may also be interested in learning more about [FutureLearn’s Terms and Conditions](https://about.futurelearn.com/terms/) and how they apply to you.

## Talking point

We would like to start the course by hearing from you. There will probably be a variety of reasons why each of you have signed up to do this course and we have been really interested to read the introductions that many of you posted in the welcome area before the course started.

If you haven’t already introduced yourself or would like to provide more reasons for taking part in the course, take a moment to share your thoughts within the **Comments**.

Perhaps you might like to tell other learners about who you are, where you’re from and why you are interested in learning about the law. Also consider reading and commenting on contributions made by other learners or following learners with similar interests as you.

> Comments on a step can be 'filtered' which helps you access them in a way that's best for you. You can do this by selecting comments by **‘All comments’**, **‘Bookmarked’**, **'Your comments'** or **'Following'** from the drop-down menu in the comments section of the step. You can can also sort by **'Newest'**, **'Oldest'** or **'Most liked'**.

------

© Monash University 2017. CRICOS No. 00008C

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/law-for-non-lawyers/3/steps/177708#fl-comments)