# So what?

With only a swipe on our smartphone screens, a touch of a button, or just a tap of a credit card, all the way through to a signing on the dotted line of a contract to buy your home, contracts are a part of our lives.

We might not think of the legal side of this phenomenon all that often, but we probably should. It’s therefore important to get a good understanding of contract law. Share your views on the importance of understanding contract law by taking part in the poll.

## How to take part in the poll

1. Select **Launch** from the **So what?** section of the step to access the poll.
2. Respond to the poll question and then select **Back to course** to return to this step.
3. In the **Comments** section of this step, share with other learners the reason for your answer.

If you answered **‘Yes, training should be made available’** to the poll question, describe the type of training you’d like to be made available to the public.

If you answered **‘No, it works fine the way it is’**, provide some examples of the training you know of or have been able to access.

## Curious about the results of the poll?

Review the [results of the poll](https://muolt.typeform.com/report/qfzpcx/xOYI), return to this step and then within the **Comments**, consider sharing with other learners your thoughts on the outcome.

Once you have, take some time to read and respond to comments made by other learners. Remember, you can also ‘like’ comments or follow other learners throughout the course.

------

Please note, by launching the exercise you will be taken to a page containing content provided by a third party website.