## Free indirect style

- [**Intro](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/quizzes/193345/introduction)
- [Question1not attempted](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/193345/questions/1)
- [Question2not attempted](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/193345/questions/2)
- [Question3not attempted](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/193345/questions/3)

For this quiz, have a look at the example of free indirect style below. This is from the start of the novel when Henry is still a boy. It concerns an orchard on the Forge’s farm, and the extra work this presents to the cook, Maryleen, when the apples are ready for picking. Read through it, and then have a go at the questions which follow.

> The orchard was nothing but a headache for Maryleen one week of the year, usually October, but this time early November, because the apples had ripened later than expected. Now everyone was there in her kitchen – everyone: the boy; his mother, who had all the personality of a pillow; Filip, who was quiet, but mostly because he was drunk of white lightning, and everybody in Claysville knew it, because despite his haughty, stoic airs, he had a special talent for public intoxication at festivals and carnivals and whatnot. Apple-picking help even came from the field hands on occasion, because there were simply too many apples, more than any single person could manage. The garden Maryleen handled on her own; the green beans came in first and then tomatoes and the lettuce early and late, so the whole process was staggered, neatly terraced in time. She’d can what she could, freeze just a little in the icebox, but she never needed any help with that, and if she needed help, she wouldn’t ask for it, she just stayed late. That way she didn’t have to deal with people. That was her specialty, besides cooking – refusing to suffer fools, and most everybody was a fool in her book. When she’d first interviewed, she said with that gravelly voice of hers, “I don’t do child rearing.” She hadn’t said, I ain’t no Hattie McDaniel, you see two hundred pounds and a kerchief? She’d just kept that to herself and stuck to her intentions with the rigor of the devout. She only spoke to the child when he spoke to her, and she kept it to “yes” and “no” as often as not, and when nuance was called for, she said “Hmmmm” as if she were studying on it, which she wasn’t; she was thinking, Get thee thither, fool. The tall-dark-and-silent Filip, who was supercilious as hell for no reason except he was a colored man with someone he could actually lord over, tried to impress upon her the importance of learning to talk to the lady of the house in signs, because that was the respectful, Christian thing to do, damaged as she was and all. Well, Maryleen wasn’t about to do that, not today, not tomorrow, not ever. She could say yes and no with just her hands, but she begged off the rest. After all, didn’t they train dogs with hand signals? Better to communicate with nobody at all than to have them flap their hands at you like you were a golden retriever. “Oh no, can’t nobody teach me nothing,” she’d mouthed like some simpleton to the blonde lady, who always looked at you like she was the doe and you were the oncoming headlights, but the truth was Maryleen wasn’t here to talk to anyone. She wasn’t here to child rear, or make nice with some white lady, or play the role of kitchen slave to the pink toes and the Filips of the world. She was here to cook. And she was exceptionally gifted at it.