## Meet the author

Here is an interview with C. E. Morgan about some aspects of the novel. At the bottom she also offers some compelling thoughts on the role of the reader.

Question: Although we move towards an inexorable climax, the novel doesn’t follow a consistently linear structure, by any means; it skips around, with several brief “interludes” detailing the escape of runaway slave, Scipio; others that focus on the white settlers who made it through the Cumberland Gap after the Revolutionary War; and sections on the childhood and adolescence of Allmon Shaughnessy. I wonder if you could say something about the writing process – did you map out the different sections before piecing it together later, or was it written as it now stands?

> Answer: It was written as it now stands, but slowly. The book required nine years to write—as opposed to *All the Living*, which was drafted also in its current form in two weeks. Every project is different.

Q: You use free indirect style a lot in this novel, and this is important for giving us a sense of the characters’ interiority. How easy (or difficult) did you find it having to insert yourself into so many different characters’ heads?

> A: It’s not difficult to speak in the voice of a wide variety of characters. That comes very naturally and is not one of the greater challenges of writing. The real difficulty lies more in sitting with suffering during the writing process; just as the practiced meditator sits with all difficult feelings that arise, the writer must endure and work with painful feelings if they are serious about what literature can accomplish in the world. This sitting with suffering is very different from superficial notions of the suffering artist, which consists mostly of cultivating a mystique of hardship.

> The suffering I’m talking about requires standing in the charnel grounds in order to serve the human family, using the world’s great pain in order to impact it, and doing this regardless of one’s own personal desire for escape and relief. If we are serious about addressing injustice, then we unavoidably sit with pain (our own and others’), and we have to learn how to accept it, survive it, transform it. You learn to stay. This is not easy, but no spiritual practice is easy. It is, however, rewarding. To me, that’s the difference between pleasure and joy: cheap and fleeting vs difficult but deeply satisfying.

Q: Reuben is one of the most lively and entertaining characters in the book, and much of this comes down to the way he talks: he’s a mercurial character – parodic, amusing, and scornful. What was your objective in giving him such an idiosyncratic way of speaking, and how difficult was that to write?

> A: No, Reuben was not a difficult character to write. Generally speaking, expansion is easier than contraction, effusion easier than restraint, in the same way that it requires less technical proficiency to sing fortissimo than sotto voce. Rigorously maintaining a single aesthetic in a text (as in *All the Living*) is much more challenging than constructing a linguistically slippery character, or a text which employs a wide variety of rhetorical techniques and voices (*The Sport of Kings*).

Q: *The Sport of Kings* is notable for many things, but one of them is the range of styles and genres contained within it – myth, parody, sermons, science textbooks, and so on. How important was it to incorporate so many different types of writing into the novel?

> A: *The Sport of Kings* works against an aesthetics of consistency and brevity for very specific reasons – a fact lost on many critics, I’m afraid. Aesthetics are not just contributive to meaning in a text; they are meaning. I would argue that the purpose of a particular aesthetic or of various employed aesthetics can be discerned through close reading and as many have said before me: reading is rereading. The critical question for the reader when approaching and then reapproaching anything in a text is: Why? Why was this rhetorical technique used; why was the text arranged in this fashion; why were certain details inserted; which canonical texts are alluded to implicitly or explicitly; why was this particular word employed, rather than any other word in the lexicon? A well-constructed work should offer answers to these questions internally. There may not a be a single correct answer, rather a multiplicity of correct answers, but the writer should not be required to make an appearance as an extratextual resource for full understanding. The answers should be inherent.

Finally, Morgan gives us some fascinating insights into how important she regards you, her readers:

> I don’t answer interpretive questions about my work … in part because I’m devoted to the idea the text is complete. Insofar as words are deliberately chosen, meaning is discernible. Also, *The Sport of Kings* is not just dedicated to the reader, it belongs to the reader. I fear that the writer is given too much interpretive power in the public sphere when that privilege belongs to the reader. The right to interpret, to think for oneself, is a fundamental right, one which should be both guarded and exercised with care. A reader should never give their power away, not even to the writer. Finally, the next generation of writers is grown through rigorous, autonomous reading of texts and really no other way. The young artist creates herself through careful engagement with the constructedness of a work: reasoning out for herself why various formal techniques are used; why characters make their choices; why language is stylized and manipulated or reflective of standard usage; how emotional power is built and deployed in a narrative; and how all the author’s choices relate to the book’s purposes. These are the fundamentals of a writer’s education, an education gained mostly in private with books. Every text is both a textbook and a playground.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/222437#fl-comments)



