# So what?

With some criminal offences, the law says that it is not necessary that the person intended to engage in the conduct that caused them to commit an offence, meaning there is no mental or mind element for the offence to be proved, for example, speeding in your car.

This is also known as a strict liability offence. There is a defence available in these kinds of cases, where an accused person honestly and reasonably believes and makes a mistake about facts that, if true, would have made their conduct lawful, such as what was the actual navigational position of your boat before you decided to fish in a specifically licenced area. This is different from simply not knowing that you need a licence to take fish from the water, which is not an excuse.

What are your views on the fairness of strict and liability offences? Consider sharing them with other learners by taking part in this poll.

## How to take part in the poll

1. Select **Launch** from the **So what?** section of the step to access the poll.
2. Respond to the poll question and then select **Back to course** to return to this step.
3. In the **Comments** section of this step, share with other learners the reason for your answer.

If you answered **‘Yes’** to the poll question, describe why you think these offences are fair.

If you answered **‘No’**, discuss why you think these offences are unfair. How could the two-part criminal offence formula be changed to become more fair?

## Curious about the results of the poll?

Review the [results of the poll](https://muolt.typeform.com/report/rOekgA/LuCT), return to this step and then within the **Comments**, consider sharing with other learners your thoughts on the outcome.



https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/law-for-non-lawyers/3/steps/177749