# Case study 2: Careless Colin

[0:05Skip to 0 minutes and 5 seconds](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/law-for-non-lawyers/3/steps/177764#)NARRATOR: Careless Colin loves the great outdoors. And he's very happy to be nominated by his group of friends to organise a camping and canoeing trip on everyone's behalf. He selects a place called Stormy Bay Camping Ground. It's notorious this time of year for sudden afternoon storms. At the campsite, Colin finds last week's newspaper and checks the weather section. It indicates calm fine weather. Colin and his friend set off in their canoes, but not long after they journey, a storm whips up and quickly two of the group run into trouble. Their canoes hit some rocks as they try to make it out of the increasing swell. The canoes are damaged and Colin's friends both suffer injuries.

[0:51Skip to 0 minutes and 51 seconds](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/law-for-non-lawyers/3/steps/177764#)Can Colin's injured friends sue him for the tort of negligence? What must they prove in order to recover compensation from Colin? What could Colin have done differently?

Watch “Careless Colin” for examples of everyday situations that may include the tort of negligence.

## Talking point

Within the **Comments**, consider sharing with other learners you thoughts on the situations faced by Colin in the case study:

- Colin’s friends are injured during their camping and canoeing trip. Can Colin’s friends sue him for the tort of negligence? What must they prove to recover compensation from Colin?
- What could have Colin done differently?

------

© Monash University 2017. CRICOS No. 00008C