# Submit your Friendly Memo

It’s time to bring together what you’ve learned so far in the course about law and create a Friendly Memo that helps others in your jurisdiction better understand the law.

## What you need to do

1. Choose a situation (or from one of the case studies) and think about how you could help others in your jurisdiction better understand the governing law.
2. Write a Friendly Memo (maximum 300 words) that provides them with guidance.
3. Once you have submitted your assignment, you will then be asked to read and comment on the work of other learners.

Your Friendly Memo doesn’t need to be formatted or presented as formal report. It can be a number of key concepts or ideas listed under the sections **Situation**, **Laws** and **Guidance**. These headings match the guidelines that will be used by other learners to review and provide feedback.

> **Your Friendly Memo does not constitute legal advice or an opinion and is information for educational purposes only.**

## Giving effective feedback

Once you have submitted your assignment, you will be invited to give feedback on the assignment submitted by another learner. In other words, a peer review.

Constructive feedback, and the process of reflecting on the feedback you receive on your own assignment, are both very powerful learning opportunities, and we hope that you give and receive feedback in the spirit of creating a supportive learning environment. Here are some tips on how to give the other learner effective feedback on their work:

- Make sure that the tone of your feedback is always constructive. There is no place in this review process for feedback that is negative, disrespectful or derogatory.
- Make sure that your feedback addresses the three criteria we set for the assignment: **Situation**, **Laws** and **Guidance**. If you are making suggestions, make sure they are clear, and align with one of these criteria.
- Emphasise the positives of what your peer submitted. Look for things they did well.

Remember the context of this course: an introduction to law. The purpose of the assignment is to encourage you to think about what you’ve learned from the course. This is a short assignment, not a university essay or legal document. Therefore, please make sure your comments and suggestions are appropriate for this task.

## Submitting your Friendly Memo

We strongly recommend that you write your Friendly Memo in a text editor first, then cut and paste it into the assignment text box. This protects you from losing any of your work in the event of internet connection problems while you are writing.

#### ASSIGNMENT GUIDELINES

The reviewers will be asked to give you feedback on the following aspects of your assignment, so you should consider these when writing:

- Situation: How well has the author described the context, issue or situation? Is there additional information they should have included?
- Laws: How well has the author researched and applied relevant laws? Have they provided links or citations as authority to support their approach?
- Guidance: How well has the author explained the practical guidance they were trying to convey?

## Your assignment