# First appearances

We looked in the previous steps at some of the ways in which a character can be presented to the reader. This step will apply what we’ve learnt so far to the depiction of Mitko. The following passage is how we first encounter him, on the first page of the novel. Read it first, and then we’ll consider some of the effects produced.

> That my first encounter with Mitko B. ended in a betrayal, even a minor one, should have given me greater warning at the time, which should in turn have made my desire for him less, if not done away with it completely. But warning, in places like the bathrooms at the National Palace of Culture, where we met, is like some element coterminous with the air, ubiquitous and inescapable, so that it becomes part of those who inhabit it, and thus part and parcel of the desire that draws us there. Even as I descended the stairs I heard his voice, which like the rest of him was too large for those subterranean rooms, spilling out of them as if to climb back into the bright afternoon that, though it was mid-October, had nothing autumnal about it; the grapes that hung ripe from vines throughout the city burst warm still in one’s mouth. I was surprised to hear someone talking so freely in a place where, by unstated code, voices seldom rose above a whisper.

The passage begins with a foreshadowing of what is to come – that first sentence functions as a type of prolepsis, or flash-forward, as the narrator glances ahead to the end of the scene. But we’re told about Mitko’s voice, and this seems important: he speaks loudly in a place where it is inappropriate to do so. We still haven’t met him, but we might assume from this that he is assertive and unafraid. We are also given his name, and this too is significant, because we soon discover that the narrator refers to all other friends and lovers only by their first initial.

When we do meet Mitko, on the following page, our sense of him develops:

> He was tall, thin but broad-shouldered, with the close-cropped military cut of hair popular among certain young men in Sofia, who affect a hypermasculine style and an air of criminality. I hardly noticed the man he was with, who was shorter, deferential, with bleached blond hair and a denim jacket from the pockets of which he never removed his hands. It was the larger man who turned toward me with apparently friendly interest, free of predation or fear, and though I was taken aback I found myself smiling in response. He greeted me with an elaborate rush of words, at which I could only shake my head in bemusement as I grasped the large hand he held out, offering as broken apology and defense the few phrases I had practiced to numbness. His smile widened when he realized I was a foreigner, revealing a chipped tooth, the jagged seam of which (I would learn) he worried obsessively with his index finger in moments of abstraction. Even at arm’s length, I could smell the alcohol that emanated not so much from his breath as from his clothes and hair; it explained his freedom in a place that, for all its license, was bound by such inhibition, and explained too the peculiarly innocent quality of his gaze, which was intent but unthreatening.

Here we learn more details about Mitko, such as his manner and appearance: he has short hair, is tall but lean, and he seems open and friendly – he smiles, shakes the narrator’s hand, and looks intently at him. But there is much more going on here, though, because his appearance also belies straitened circumstances: that chipped front tooth, and the smell of alcohol that isn’t merely on his breath, but seems to be more deeply embedded. This might hint at a more serious drinker, rather than someone who has simply been drinking that day. And why does he smile more widely when he realises the narrator is a foreigner?

The description we’re given relates to Mitko’s appearance and general demeanour, but it also gestures towards his situation and hints at his personality. And the fact that the narrator seems to remember this encounter so clearly, despite it being quite some time ago (as might be suggested by the phrase “at the time” in the novel’s first sentence, and the use of the past tense throughout) implies that Mitko would become important to him.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extracts from *What Belongs to You* by Garth Greenwell, published by Picador, 2016; reprinted with permission of Macmillan Publishers International Ltd.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185497#fl-comments)

