# Searching for motives

In the previous step we looked at Mitko’s first appearance in the novel. But if we wish to understand him better, we need to consider how he behaves. A little later in the novel, after the narrator arranges for Mitko to spend the night at his apartment, we’re presented with the following passage. Mitko has spotted the narrator’s laptop lying on the table, and goes to use it:

> When he opened it, he made a sound of dismay at the state in which I kept it, the screen mottled with dust; *Mrusen*, he said, dirty, with the same tone of voice he would use in response to the requests I made of him later, a tone of mockery and disapproval but also of indulgence, spotting a fault it was in his power either to exploit or to repair. He rose and stepped to the kitchen counter, opening two cupboards and then a third before I understood what he was looking for and fetched the bottle of cleaner from beneath the sink. He put his drink (the large glass almost empty) on the table beside him and placed the computer in his lap, almost cradling it, and with a dampened tissue he began cleaning the screen, not in a desultory hurried way, as I might when finally I bothered, but taking his time, working at it with a thoroughness I would never think it needed. He turned to the keyboard, almost as dirty as the screen, and when he closed the machine and with his fifth or sixth tissue wiped down the aluminium case. *Sega*, he said, with satisfaction, now, and set the computer back on its perch, pleased to have done me a service.

This whole performance might seem a little odd, but hardly worth commenting on, were it not for the behaviour described by the narrator a page or two earlier, when he and Mitko are walking over to the apartment:

> As was always the case during our time together, I was frustrated by the fragments that were all I could understand of his stories, both because of my poor Bulgarian and because he kept speaking in a kind of code, so that I seldom understood precisely the nature of the relationships he described or why they ended as they did. Never before had I met anyone who combined such transparency (or the semblance of transparency) with such mystery, so that he seemed at once overexposed and hidden behind impervious defenses. We fell silent as we walked toward my building, both of us perhaps thinking of what awaited us there.

When they near the narrator’s apartment, they stop in at an alcohol shop:

> Mitko walked in first and placed both of his hands palm down on the glass counter, making the shopkeeper wince, and then leaned over to peer at the more expensive bottles displayed on the back wall. He examined several of these, asking the man repeatedly and to his increasing exasperation to pass them over the counter so he could read their labels.

Throughout these passages Mitko’s fastidiousness is firmly on display, evinced by the time he takes to choose which bottle to buy, and the care with which he cleans the computer screen. Although near-enough homeless, Mitko has certain standards. That these actions are described in such detail suggests that this behaviour is baffling to the narrator – and Mitko’s caginess about his past relationships only adds to the puzzle. Mitko’s tendency towards concealment, and his desire for control (he is exacting even when the circumstances don’t require it), are traits we should look out for as the novel develops.

But the narrator’s bafflement is in some ways symptomatic, because his understanding of Mitko throughout the novel is necessarily partial: he is a first-person narrator, and therefore not privy to Mitko’s thoughts (as would have been the case with a third-person omniscient perspective). And at this point in the narrative he still doesn’t know Mitko all that well, and is attracted enough to him to invite him back to his apartment. These emotions have the potential to cloud his impression further.

There is also a significant language barrier between them – in fact throughout the novel, the narrator tells us he struggled to capture some details of Mitko’s conversation, as his own Bulgarian wasn’t fluent. His knowledge of Mitko remains incomplete on several levels.

Throughout the novel the narrator is trying to piece together an account of Mitko, but much of this is based on behaviour and appearances – external signs rather than knowledge of thoughts and motives. Our own impression of him must also therefore be limited. And his descriptions of Mitko are conveyed from a position of reconstructed memory, at a later moment in time. This could be a further sign that some of the information we’re given is not completely accurate. These are all reasons to be cautious about the reliability of the narrator’s portrayal of his lover, whether or not he is intending to mislead.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extracts from *What Belongs to You* by Garth Greenwell, published by Picador, 2016; reprinted with permission of Macmillan Publishers International Ltd.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185498#fl-comments)