# Patterns of behaviour

We considered earlier on that while some characters are consistent in their behavioural patterns throughout a novel, others might act in a particular way once or twice before altering their behaviour as they mature and learn. Or perhaps when they acted badly (or indeed did something kind), this seemed out of character: it was contrary to our expectations. In *What Belongs to You*, as we saw in the previous step, the narrator subtly provides us with instances of Mitko’s behaviour which seem relatively innocuous, but when repeated, might suggest certain things about his character.

Let’s consider now a further example of this. In the following short passage, the two men are on a walk in Mitko’s home town:

> Mitko was hungry, and we stopped at a snack stand, a bakery selling cheese pastries and sausages and sweets of various kinds. We stood in the street to eat, a small pedestrian square lined on one side by the opera house, and soon we were accosted by one of these birds, who trotted intently before us, working the hinges of its bill and raising its wings as it cried. Mitko had ordered more food than he could eat, and he threw one of his scraps to this bird, which beat its wings to catch it in midair, tossing it back quickly and repeating its demands.

Mitko’s over-ordering on the food (which the narrator is paying for) would seem relatively inconsequential – a detail easily forgotten – were it not for the fact that he does this throughout the novel. It happens at a restaurant they go to with a friend of the narrator, where again he orders “far more than he could consume”, and several times at the apartment he is described either eating or taking the narrator’s food.

This tendency comes to be so much a part of Mitko’s character – such an engrained habit – that his initial reticence when ordering food at a branch of McDonald’s later in the novel seems entirely aberrant, as the narrator remarks:

> I expected Mitko to load his tray with far more than he could eat, as he usually did when I bought him food, but he only ordered a sandwich, fries, and at my insistence a milkshake, which he had never had before, he said, it had never occurred to him to try one. Mitko grabbed the milkshake as soon as the server set it down and put the straw to his lips, and it was a joy to see his eyes widen with pleasure when he tasted it.

Notice there how he grabs the milkshake. And despite the apparent modesty of his order, the narrator subsequently describes how

> Mitko sat and tore into his food, not pausing until almost all of it was gone. Then he looked up, almost embarrassed, as if for a moment he had forgotten I was there.

This greed is understandable enough given that Mitko is practically homeless, but it is worth focusing on because it is so consistent with his behaviour towards the narrator throughout: he is constantly grabbing things from him, whether money or food – or even his time, through sporadic but insistent visits to his apartment. The narrator is generous, but Mitko still treats him as though he is somehow owed, and therefore takes more than his due each time they meet.

This is an unbalanced relationship, and from the start it was based on exchange – money for sex. But the narrator’s willingness to give so much away might also force us to ask questions about his own character: does he feel threatened, or is he genuinely concerned? Does he feel guilty about his relative affluence? Or perhaps he is simply easy to take advantage of, and Mitko, a good reader of people, has sensed this. Each reader is likely to have their own view. What is yours?

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extracts from *What Belongs to You* by Garth Greenwell, published by Picador, 2016; reprinted with permission of Macmillan Publishers International Ltd.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185499#fl-comments)