# Responding to others

We’ve looked at how Mitko behaves towards the narrator, and thought about whether this might reflect on the latter’s inability to say no to him. But what about Mitko’s conduct around others? This is important: although this is a first-person narration, and all impressions are filtered through the narrator’s perspective, examining how Mitko acts in front of other people can provide a more multidimensional view of his character.

In the following passage, the narrator has arranged to meet his friend C. for dinner, but Mitko has come to the apartment unannounced, and therefore joins them for their meal:

> Mitko was delighted to see this friend, whom he had met before on one of his visits and with whom he was clearly smitten, as was nearly everyone who met C., who had an effortless, ingratiating charm and was nonetheless entirely indifferent to the needs and desires of others, so that he seemed always to be receding while still inviting pursuit. Mitko hardly took his eyes off him and touched him whenever he could, always robust and friendly touches, a physical language he used to compensate for their inability to speak to each other; and yet touches that, though there was nothing at all seductive about them, I knew would at the slightest sign of permission or desire have taken on a sexual heat.

After Mitko has, once again, ordered too much food, they

> settled into a silence interrupted by Mitko’s sallies at conversation, nearly all of them directed, through me, to C.

Mitko is clearly attracted to C.: he focuses all his attention on him, touches him whenever possible, and tries to keep their conversation going despite the language barrier. It’s suggested that part of Mitko’s attraction to C. is owing to the latter’s apparent insouciance. Unlike the narrator, who struggles to keep his feelings in check, C. seems wholly indifferent, and this makes Mitko work harder for his attention. This isn’t how he generally behaves towards the narrator. And the fact that Mitko doesn’t bother to conceal his interest in C. in front of his lover also signals an apparent disregard for his feelings.

Our final example is from the trip to Mitko’s home town:

> Everywhere we went he greeted people by name, shaking their hands, patting their backs like a politician, an unaccountably public man. He gestured toward me in introduction, saying that I was his friend, an American, at which point I nodded politely and waited for the conversation to end.

Considering Mitko’s frequent reticence and withdrawal when he and the narrator are alone, this behaviour seems somewhat out of character. This incident, like the one we looked at previously with C., provokes several questions about him, and about their relationship: does Mitko feel so comfortable with the narrator that he can remove this mask of friendliness when it’s just the two of them? Or does he feel the narrator doesn’t deserve his politeness? Is this public display closer to the “real” Mitko, which his life in Sofia has crushed out of him, or is he simply glad to have an American friend to parade around?

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extracts from *What Belongs to You* by Garth Greenwell, published by Picador, 2016; reprinted with permission of Macmillan Publishers International Ltd.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185500#fl-comments)