# Omniscient narrators

The previous activity outlined two of the central ways in which we learn about a character: either directly, when a narrator or other voice in authority describes that individual to us; or indirectly, when they reveal their true nature gradually, through their words and deeds. Another important way in which we learn more about a character is through gaining access to their inner thoughts.

Unlike in real life, we as readers can often find ourselves in a privileged position, presented with knowledge about an individual’s unspoken thoughts, motives and desires, and therefore knowing them more intimately than any of the other characters in the novel. Now of course this isn’t the case for all characters – for many, we remain as outsiders, able only to guess at the way their mind is working.

There are various ways in which we might access the minds of characters, and this depends whom the author has chosen to narrate. If, for instance, our narrator has an all-knowing, Olympian perspective – what we term “omniscient” – then he or she can drift freely in and out of each of the character’s heads. We tend to associate this type of narrator with Victorian novels; a good example is George Eliot’s novel [*Middlemarch*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Middlemarch), where the roving narrative eye affords us more knowledge of each character than they ever have of each other, and we have a god-like understanding of how their minds are working.

Consider the following moment, when Will Ladislaw calls on his much older cousin Mr. Casaubon and new wife Dorothea Brooke during their honeymoon in Rome, but finds only Dorothea at home:

> Will Ladislaw was struck mute for a few moments. He had never been fond of Mr Casaubon, and if it had not been for the sense of obligation, would have laughed at him as a Bat of erudition. But the idea of this dried-up pedant, this elaborator of small explanations about as important as the surplus stock of false antiquities kept in a vendor’s back chamber, having first got this adorable young creature to marry him, and then passing his honeymoon away from her, groping after his mouldy futilities (Will was given to hyperbole) – this sudden picture stirred him with a sort of comic disgust: he was divided between the impulse to laugh aloud and the equally unseasonable impulse to burst into scornful invective. For an instant he felt that the struggle was causing a queer contortion of his mobile features, but with a good effort he resolved it into nothing more offensive than a merry smile.

> Dorothea wondered; but the smile was irresistible, and shone back from her face too. Will Ladislaw’s smile was delightful, unless you were angry with him beforehand: it was a gush of inward light illuminating the transparent skin as well as the eyes, and playing about every curve and line as if some Ariel were touching them with a new charm, and banishing for ever the traces of moodiness.

Notice in this passage that we are party to Will’s thoughts and emotions, while Dorothea can only surmise what he is thinking from the look on his face; in the second paragraph the narrator seems to shift into her consciousness, which again the reader has access to.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0

[** View425 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185489#fl-comments)