# Overview of What Belongs to You

In the previous steps we considered some of the ways in which character is revealed to us. Now we’re going to apply this knowledge to Garth Greenwell’s 2016 novel *What Belongs to You*.

This is told from the perspective of a young American man looking back on his experiences while teaching English in the Bulgarian capital of Sofia. The narrator, who remains unnamed throughout, is gay, and on the novel’s first page he describes walking down the steps to the bathrooms of the National Museum of Culture where he encounters Mitko, a hustler.

Much of the novel concerns his turbulent and sporadic relationship with Mitko, and his effort to piece together, from reconstructed memory and from the sparse information he managed to glean, the young man’s background and motives – what made him behave in unexpected, sometimes cruel ways, and why he was homeless.

But the novel is about much more than this: about a third of the way through, the narrator is in the middle of a lesson when he is handed a note to say that his father is gravely ill and wishes him to return to America to see him. The news is the prompt for an extended deliberation on the events in his adolescence that led to his estrangement from his father. Prominent among this was his friendship with another boy, known to us only as K., with whom he fell in love, but who after an affectionate night sleeping next to each other, found a way to humiliate him. And the narrator’s father, having read his diary, was disgusted by him, and rejected him completely.

This middle third could be described as an extended flashback, providing reasons for the narrator’s current situation and insights into his emotional responses. But having walked through Sofia while these memories resurface, he finds himself in a different part of the city, and the Mitko narrative is taken up again in the final section of the book.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185496#fl-comments)