# Conversations between several characters[** View400 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185530#fl-comments)

The previous two examples have largely focused on Eily and Stephen, but the novel’s dialogue of course includes other characters as well. This is a careful balancing act, though: as we’ve seen, when there are only two people talking, it’s relatively straightforward to work out which of them is speaking. But when more people are involved, there is potential for confusion.

In the following example, Eily and Stephen are in the pub, and Eily has become increasingly irritated by him looking at other women. She gets up to use the toilet, but comes back to find another woman in her seat:

> Hello? Oh hi, just talking to your mate. He’s not my mate, actually. We recognised each other Eil but can’t quite place from where. Oh really? It’s true, sorry, is this your chair? Don’t worry, he says as I say Yes. Just grab that one over there Eily, this is going to annoy us. Oh yeah, I bet it is.

This short exchange works because each of the voices has a distinctive character: the other woman seems polite, but her solicitude (“sorry, is this your chair?”) might be merely feigned. Stephen acts oblivious to Eily’s annoyance, blithely continuing with the conversation and making her find another chair.

And finally we have Eily’s mounting fury: her acerbic response “He’s not my mate, actually”, her petty attempt to claim back her seat, and finally her barely suppressed rage in that final, presumably unspoken, “Oh yeah, I bet it is.”

Within just a few lines of text, McBride offers us the perfect mix of jealousy and apparent disregard, and an intimation of subsequent infidelity.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extract from *The Lesser Bohemians* by Eimear McBride, published by Faber & Faber, 2016; reprinted with permission of Faber & Faber.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185530#fl-comments)