# The politics of dialect[** View623 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185513#fl-comments)

This excerpt is from *Grey Granite*, the last of the novels in Lewis Grassic Gibbon’s trilogy, and published in 1934. At this point in the plot, workers from Duncairn are on strike, and marching through the town, and we have a roving camera eye that records the voices of the men – not the authorities, not the policemen, but the people on the march:

> And on and up you rumbled through Paldy, clatter of boots on the calsay stones, the sun was shining through drifts of rain, shining you saw it fall on the roofs in long, wavering lines and floodings of rain, queer you’d never seen it look bonny as that. But now all the chaps were lifting their heads as they marched, and looking as though they hadn’t a care in the world, not showing their qualms to the gentry sods. Bobbies had come out and now marched by the column, a birn of the bastards, fat and well fed, coshes in hand, there was the new Sergeant, him they called Feet – Christ, and what plates of meat! Boomr-oom went thr drum and you were all singing:

> Up wi’ the gentry, that’s for me,

> Up wi’ the gentry fairly,

> Let’s slobber on King and our dear Countree –

> And I’m sure they’ll make me sairly.

> And a lot more like that, about Ramsay Mac, stite, but it gave a swing to your feet and you all felt kittled up and high by then and looked back by your shoulder and saw behind the birn of the billies marching like you, you forgot the wife, that you hadn’t a meck, the hunger and the dirt, you’d alter that. They couldn’t deny you, you and the rest of the Broo folk here, the right to lay bare your grievances.

The Scots dialect words lend realism to that passage. We can guess from the context what many of them mean, even if they look and sound unfamiliar.

But the fact that the narration is located in the same world as that occupied by the marching strikers, the Scots characters, also amounts to a political act: there is no recourse here to an authoritative narrator who might explain away their motives, neutralise their capacity for subversion, or otherwise suggest how the reader might interpret their actions. Instead we are placed in direct contact with working-class subjectivity.

This passage goes further than that, though – use of that second-person voice, the “you”, draws the reader in, including us within that “you” which represents the collective voice of the community. Reading that passage, we are able to observe the men on strike and gain access to their thoughts, but we are also encouraged to feel part of that unit.

The use of dialect here is hugely important: it carries within it values that are political (left wing), national (Scottish), and class-based (working class), and urges the reader to align themselves with these same principles.

When we come across characters in a novel speaking in dialect, it is useful to remember that similar intentions may also be in play.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185513#fl-comments)