# Overview of The Lesser Bohemians[** View791 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185525#fl-comments)

*The Lesser Bohemians*, set in London between September 1994 and July 1995, centres on the relationship between 18-year old Eily, a first-year drama student from Ireland, and Stephen, a handsome actor twenty years her senior.

The two meet in a pub in Camden, and after an evening of drinking and flirting, she goes home with him. But what seems at first a one-off encounter – an opportunity for Eily to fulfil her goal of losing her virginity as soon as possible – turns into something much more significant when the two meet again by chance at the theatre, and strike up an affair. In the spiralling love story that follows, divided into three long sections (to follow the terms of Eily’s first year at drama school), the couple variously discover ways to hurt and betray each other, break things off and begin again, and exchange secrets about their pasts.

The narrative is told in the first person, through the mind of Eily, and while the novel is saturated in sex, on a thematic level it extends to wider issues of acceptance, trust, and optimism.

The style is one of the most striking things about this novel, and the aspect you are likely to notice first: it is written in a type of stream of consciousness whereby words, thoughts, and narrative commentary are pushed together in the same sentence, blurring freely into each other without obstruction. Sentences are left incomplete in order to reproduce unspoken thoughts and fragments of conversations.

This fluid approach to syntax and grammar allows the reader intimate access to Eily’s thought stream: we move freely in and out of her mind within the space of an individual sentence, so dialogue runs against Eily’s unspoken doubts and half-formed ideas, presented to us within the same syntactical space.

We’re going to be looking at some examples of dialogue before thinking about the effect created, but first here’s an example from early on in the novel so you can get a sense of how it works. In this excerpt, Eily’s friend from drama school has had an argument with her boyfriend, so the two girls decide to go out drinking. Here, as for most of the novel, it is Eily’s perspective we’re given:

> Drink time. She makes me. Curls my hair. Mascaras and sticks me but does say Nice dress while I smoke and feign how much I don’t care that she thinks I could do with the help. It is us though, and exciting, setting off for Camden Town, clipping quick into the buzz around. We being young here and so we can. And fuck him for not calling. And who know I. I might. But won’t. But still. It’s a tad early for the Palace now, let’s stop here for a drink.

> Old boy I’d say but awful Irish. Royal College Street. Space though and I’m not mad for the heave. She goes to the bar. I get us a seat. Marlboro Lights and lagers and we with some gossip. Not much of it kind. And after only one she’s fidgeting over maybe she should call because, you know, perhaps he has and. Don’t you dare, just wait him out. I’ll get us another then we’ll set off down. Weeeelllll, she reluctants Okay.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extract from *The Lesser Bohemians* by Eimear McBride, published by Faber & Faber, 2016; reprinted with permission of Faber & Faber.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185525#fl-comments)