# Straightforward conversations[** View455 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185526#fl-comments)

Much of the narrative is positioned inside Eily’s mind as she experiences things for the first time: London, love, drama school, new friendships. Her thoughts unspool in response to these sights and sensations. But our focus in this section is on the way in which dialogue is rendered, and this is very different from the type of conversations we looked at earlier, when each new speaker is given a new line, and the narrator steps in with “he said” or “she said” when it’s necessary to make it clear who is talking. Let’s now look at a short example of dialogue between Eily and Stephen, in his flat:

> Later he packs an old duffel bag. Can I stay over? Yeah alright, but I have an early start. Is that the truth? It’s a half-seven train. How long are you away this time? Two weeks. Same film? Luckily, not. Was it really that bad? It really was. And this? Week in Prague, a week up North. Will you go see your family? No. No time? No, I don’t, anyway, how are you? A lot better now, thanks. Good, shove up, I’ll turn out the light and let’s get some kip. So we do, as if everything’s simple for us and, in the dark, it is.

Notice how the conversation is written as we would hear it spoken: the narrator is largely absent, allowing the dialogue to continue unimpeded. Unlike conventional written dialogue, it isn’t set out on the page so that each new speaker starts off on a new line. And, as throughout this novel, there are no quotation marks.

But we can still intuit certain things about the characters here: Eily’s vague suspicion that Stephen might be lying about his early start in a bid to get rid of her; his evasive response to her question about his family, which he covers up with another question; and his apparently easy manner with her: “Good, shove up, I’ll turn out the light”.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extract from *The Lesser Bohemians* by Eimear McBride, published by Faber & Faber, 2016; reprinted with permission of Faber & Faber.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185526#fl-comments)