# Paris in wartime[** View307 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185576#fl-comments)

For our first example, we’re going to look at Jo Baker’s description of Paris under Nazi occupation, in the summer of 1941.

> It’s strangely cool for August. The sky is grey; the city is grey. There are grey-green uniforms on the café terraces around Odéon; German officers swing out of shops with little luxuries; they walk three abreast and take up the width of the pavements. Paris is a luxury they have allowed themselves; they indulge in it. They fill the city with their grey.

> He makes his way through all of this as if it is not real. The occupiers are silent images projected upon the city. They slip over him without touching. He holds his own pictures, his own images of Germany, in his head: the cool spires, the mist and stillness of early morning, the fug of beer-halls, strong paint-spattered hands, a crook’s smile.

> Remember this. The Germany you love.

> He takes out his cigarette pack, touches the tip of his last cigarette. This morning – in one of the Jewish neighbourhoods – the police made a mass arrest. They have taken hostages for the new French State. He is scanning through that tally in his head, for friends who have been put at risk. He must go and check on the Léons, at the very least. He puts the cigarette packet away and turns the other way down the rue de Vaugirard, and it seems quite ordinary, workaday, but normality is now a skin stretched thin and it can split at any time.

There are several things to notice in this passage. Here, and throughout the novel’s Paris chapters, the narrator is careful to provide us with real landmarks and street names, giving us a clear image of the city’s geography. Readers who know Paris well would be able to trace Beckett’s journey in their mind’s eye.

But even if the street names themselves aren’t familiar, the fact that they are included here lends a strong degree of realism to the description: we can imagine the type of area this is, despite not having been there.

But notice also how in Beckett’s mind the city has come to seem unreal – things are in the same place, but it is now tainted by occupying soldiers, and the Nazi presence has overlaid Paris, for him, with a sinister imprint of Germany, a sensation he struggles to tally with the German places he has known and remains fond of. And finally, consider the semblance of normality that the last street is just managing to maintain, a condition that feels tenuous, prone to fissure.

In the space of just three short paragraphs, Baker is offering us a glimpse not just of the city’s layout (or the outline of Beckett’s journey through it), but the sensations and memories evoked by what Beckett sees, and his consequent fears for the future.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extract from *A Country Road, A Tree* by Jo Baker, published by Doubleday, 2016; reprinted with permission of Transworld Publishers.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185576#fl-comments)