# Evoking an atmosphere[** View366 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185578#fl-comments)

In the previous step we looked at the novel’s description of Paris, and at both the verisimilitude achieved and the imaginative response the city provokes in one of the characters. But for much of the novel’s second half, Beckett and Suzanne are staying just outside Roussillon, in Vaucluse, south-east France. Beckett, having joined the Resistance again, is walking with another man towards the place where they will make an explosives pick-up.

This is how their night-time walk is described:

> Between the coppiced willows, down on their hunkers in the low-growing foliage, they keep out of sight. From the crossroads, one track heads off Roman-straight along the valley floor; the other is a sinuous white line that weaves its way down the hills behind them and up into the far mountains ahead. There’s no settlement at the crossroads, no signpost, nothing but a triangle of woodland, and then open pasture, vineyard, and an owl that goes ghosting past, then settles on a branch, and then flutters off again.

> They are waiting to make a pick-up. But no one comes.

> They have walked for miles – eight or nine by the time taken and the lick they took it at – out through the pastures and the vineyards beyond Roussillon. At first, it seemed that they were heading for Cavaillon. He followed the other fellow’s steady countryman’s stride along footpaths and down field margins and farm tracks; there were sudden turns in the darkness, loops to avoid farmsteads where dogs stirred in their kennels, clinking in their chains. They climbed fences and ducked through holes in hedges. And soon he was not certain that it was Cavaillon that they were heading for after all. There were no road signs, no milestones to go by, and no landmarks that he could make stick: he thought he recognized a broken tree, a barn, but then as they passed the angle changed and the shapes seemed different, and he no longer felt sure of anything at all.

Notice there the total lack of recognisable landmarks. Even the crossroads is devoid of a signpost: Beckett doesn’t know which direction he’s travelling in – whether towards the town of Cavaillon, or somewhere else. They have to travel across fields and through hedges to avoid exposure, changing direction when they see signs of habitation.

This journey leaves Beckett thoroughly disorientated, and is a good example of how a vague and indeterminate setting can evoke a particular atmosphere – in this case, clandestine and dangerous, but also utterly exhausting.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extract from *A Country Road, A Tree* by Jo Baker, published by Doubleday, 2016; reprinted with permission of Transworld Publishers.

[** ](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185578#fl-comments)