# Space and mindset[** View275 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185580#fl-comments)

Earlier on we looked at the concept of “space”, and the way in which a character’s mindset might come to affect the way they perceive their environment. Jo Baker makes use of this to good effect: for our final example, we’re going back to the start of the novel, and a description of the coastal town of Greystones, County Wicklow, where Beckett is staying with his mother.

This passage comes just after he has given his young cousins, Jill and Diana, a few coins to buy some sweets:

> He follows them as they clip down the front steps into the street. They are chattering, gleeful, sounding so English; they will stride along the seaside pavements, heads together, past the folded papers in racks, the honesty boxes and the crates of apples and plums and tomatoes; in the sweetshop the shelves are cheerful with jars of pastel bonbons, chalky mints, glossy toffees, boiled sweets like stained-glass windows. They’ll slaver and suck and crunch on the quayside, watch the boats lean in the wind, hear the rigging slap. He feels solicitous for these moments, their accretion. That they be strung together like beads on a thread, to be counted through in later times.

> He leaves them to it, turns the other way along the beach, the stones shifting and sliding underfoot, his narrow Italian boots useless for this, for anything more challenging than urban flags and cobbles. He follows a belt of rotting seaweed for the slippery comfort of it, stalking along like a wading bird, ungainly and in a hurry. Striding up through seakale now and bleached-out thrift, all its little heads tossing in the wind. He follows a worn bare line in the salt-grass that takes him up towards the road and the last houses of the town. The sun is low. The shadows are long. The wind comes bundling down from the mountains.

Notice there the different versions of the town being described. The first paragraph shows the “chattering” girls hurrying down the street. Their buoyant mood is matched by the brightly coloured jars of sweets and the jostling waves.

In the second paragraph, though, as focus shifts to Beckett, hungover and unhappy, the town looks very different: he takes an alternative route along the beach, and this much starker view reflects his gloomy state of mind. Note the “rotting seaweed”, the “low” sun, and how the wind has become much more violent. In the next step’s discussion activity, you’ll have a chance to do your own analysis of a passage much like this.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0. Extract from *A Country Road, A Tree* by Jo Baker, published by Doubleday, 2016; reprinted with permission of Transworld Publishers.

[**](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185580#fl-comments)