# Setting and tone - your turn

In the previous step we looked at an excerpt from early on in the novel, and considered what this description of the town told us about Beckett’s mood. For this assignment, we invite you to read through the passage below (which comes just afterwards in the book), and then formulate your own response. The “He” being referred to is again Samuel Beckett.

> He swings over a gate and out into the open ground beyond: gorse rattles its seed pods in the wind and his own breath rattles in his chest, and with exertion now the scar pulls. But he carries on and up through the grey scabs of limestone, and as he reaches the crest the ground falls away to reveal the sweep of the coastline beyond, the fungal growth of suburbs crawling up towards the rust-grey city. To the left, the mountains swell, and the wind pummels down from there and snatches at his jacket and makes his eyes water. He turns his back on it and blinks out towards the wrinkled slate-grey sea, and the old world that lies beyond it.

> . . . You hear the grating roar

> of pebbles which the waters draw back, and fling . . .

> But you don’t, do you? Not from here: there’s just the wind, and his own blood pulsing and the rasp of his own breath. The sea far below mouths silently; a sly lick towards the town, the graveyard, the roots of this dark hill. And over there, out over the horizon, beyond that wedge of Britain and deep into the expanse of Europe, a tidal wave is gathering, and any moment now will come the tipping point, the collapse and rush, the race towards destruction.

What did you think about the tone of this passage? What do the descriptions of the landscape suggest about Beckett’s state of mind and his thoughts about the future? And what other effects are produced - for instance, what is the impact of those two lines in the middle from “Dover Beach”, the 1867 poem by Matthew Arnold?

Try to draw on specific examples from this passage to support your analysis. Write your answer in English, and use no more than 250 words.

This might take you anything from half an hour to two hours. Take as long as you need and remember there are guidelines below for reviewing other people’s work.

#### ASSIGNMENT GUIDELINES

The reviewers will be asked to give you feedback on the following aspects of your assignment, so you should consider these when writing:

- What is the relationship between the landscape and Beckett's mood?
- Which line or lines from the extract can be used to illustrate your point?
- Have you written clearly and concisely?





https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/assignments/192563/submission/new