# Space and mood[** View363 comments](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/how-to-read-a-novel/1/steps/185568#fl-comments)

In the videos we looked at how the geographical location, or place, might come to seem integral to the plot or the shape of a novel. Now we will turn our attention to the rather less tangible category of “space” to consider the type of mood or tone that is being evoked by the environment.

In this activity, therefore, we’re going to look less at specific sites, and more on the impact a setting might have particularly on a character’s perception of their circumstances. To put this another way: how might the environment affect an individual’s mood or general condition, and in what way might a change of scenery trigger a transformation in their circumstances?

A good example to illustrate this point is [Gustave Flaubert’s](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gustave_Flaubert) 1857 novel [*Madame Bovary*](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Madame_Bovary): Emma Bovary feels trapped by her marriage to Charles and is desperate to escape to a more glamorous life elsewhere. Her emotional state (characterised by restlessness and misery) becomes linked in her mind to her domestic setting: she feels that the village of Tostes where they live, and particularly their house, have become physically loathsome:

> It was at meal-times that her endurance was strained to the furthest, in that little ground-floor living-room with its smoking stove, squeaking door, running walls and damp flagstones. She seemed to have all the bitterness of live served on her plate; the steam from the stew conjured up like fumes of nausea from the depths of her soul. Charles was a slow eater. She used to nibble a few nuts, or lean her elbow on the table and beguile the time by tracing little lines on the oilcloth with the tip of her knife . . . As she was always complaining about Tostes, Charles imagined that there must be something in the locality to account for her illness. The idea grew on him, and he began seriously to think of going away and setting up elsewhere.

Although Charles does not realise it, the specific geographical location is relatively unimportant (it could really be any village or region in France); it is Emma’s state of mind which has coloured her perception of their home in such a negative way.

© The University of Edinburgh 2017 CC BY 4.0