# Welcome to week 4

[0:04Skip to 0 minutes and 4 seconds](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/law-for-non-lawyers/3/steps/177780#)LLOYD ENGLAND: This week, intellectual property law-- what is it? What's it trying to do? How does it work? How do we manage and protect ideas and balance the Creative Commons, which is everyone's right to everything? Are you active online? Do you have a Facebook profile? Do you post YouTube clips? Do you post other people's content? Are you aware of the intellectual property ramifications of that? Have you had an idea of a product or a service or even a business? How do you protect that idea and go out to market and start talking to people in order to try and commercially exploit that idea?

[0:39Skip to 0 minutes and 39 seconds](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/law-for-non-lawyers/3/steps/177780#)Intellectual property law tries to strike that balance to protect your idea for a duration whilst you can make money out of it. What's copyright? What's a trademark? What's a patent? Come and understand how the law tries to protect ideas and expressions of ideas.

Watch Lloyd (Justice of the Peace, Lecturer, Faculty of Law) introduce the topics that are going to be discussed throughout the final week of the course.

Who owns the art, music, design, technology, or brands that we interact with everyday?

Intellectual property is all around us, we can see it everywhere, in everything we make, buy, or use. From the branding on the shoes you’re wearing, all the way through to the technology in your vacuum, car or phone, to what’s in the medication you take, it’s very likely that a person or a company owns the legal rights to the expression of that idea that you’re interacting with.

Yes, you can buy, own and use fashionable shoes, but did you know that a company will almost always retain the ownership of the design of your shoes, their brand or label on the side of your shoes, and even the technology inside your shoes, like those special flashing lights on the side, or even little pockets of air under your foot? Intellectual property law governs all these details.

------

© Monash University 2017. CRICOS No. 00008C